Jericho fell, and Rahab
and her family were spared.
Jehovah had decreed
that everything in the city be destroyed,
though all the silver and gold
were to be delivered to his treasury.
No one was to take anything for himself.
Achan, what is it?
Why are you looking so smug?
We are rich, dear one!
Rich?
What are you talking about?
See for yourselves!
Give that to me!
That’s mine!
You have done well, my husband!
I took it
from the rich, selfish, ungodly Canaanites!
Did anyone see you?
No.
I was careful.
Are you sure?
Yes.
No one could possibly know.
Father, this will give us
a good start in the Promised Land.
But—
We must hide all of these treasures.
Yes, keep them hidden!
What no one sees, no one knows.
Agreed?
Uh-huh.
Hmm.
Come then!
Let us hide all of it.
When we attacked the city of Ai,
we suffered defeat.
Jehovah then revealed
that someone had taken something
that was to be destroyed
and had stolen gold and silver
meant for Jehovah’s treasury.
The next morning,
Jehovah had all Israel come near,
tribe by tribe, family by family,
household by household, man by man.
Finally, Jehovah revealed
the disobedient man.
My son.
My lord.
Please, honor Jehovah the God of Israel
and make confession to him.
Tell me, please, what you have done.
Do not hide it from me.
For a fact,
I am the one who sinned
against Jehovah the God of Israel.
When I saw among the spoil of Jehovah
an official garment from Shinar
—such a good looking one—
And?
Yes,
and 200 shekels of silver—
Go on.
Yes, and one gold bar
weighing 50 shekels.
Achan, why did you take them?
I desired them,
so I took them.
But why?
Look at me.
Did you not hear the same words we all heard?
The instructions were clear
—the city was to be devoted to destruction.
Were you not aware
that it and everything in it
belonged to Jehovah?
Yes, I was.
And yet you stole these things?
Yes.
Why?
What does this garment
from Shinar mean to you?
It was—
You have to see it, Joshua.
It is beautiful.
It is one whole piece.
The finest material.
Fit for a king.
I have never seen such brilliant colors.
Enough, my son, enough!
Tell me, where is it?
It is hidden in the ground inside my tent,
with the money underneath it.
Go, Ishbak!
See if these words are true!
Nedabiah, go and find his family.
Achan,
did you not know
that Jehovah would see you?
I didn’t think of that.
You had no need of these things.
You have a bull and a donkey and a flock.
I—I don’t know what to say.
For a fact,
I have sinned
against Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Why have you brought disaster upon us?
Jehovah will bring disaster
upon you on this day!
Nedabiah, take them away.
Jehovah warned that willful disobedience
brings bad consequences.
Achan’s case shows that in this way too,
Jehovah’s word never fails.